sun sand and surgery with plenty of
savings the combinations making India a
global health destination and plenty of
Britons like wander and Neil wheeler are
taking full advantage of it wanders come
to Mumbai for hip surgery at a fraction
of the cost back home and with no
waiting time I reached a point where I
couldn't wait any longer for this
operation and I I was going to have to
wait if I went to the UK and the cost
would have been 20,000 and there's very
little space between the two and that
clearly suggests that the joint is arts
rating she's already had a hip
replacement 18 months ago in Tenerife
now her right hip needs work
that's where the painful isn't a there's
a little rotations in the hip she chose
to travel thousands of miles to India
instead the cost just over four thousand
pounds for a 10-day stay stiff actually
here at the walker hospital they have a
toll-free number for UK patients with
queries and an all-inclusive package
from organising visas to flights special
menus for Western palates and even a
holiday afterwards
we look after not just the patient but
also the companion because they need to
kill time here as long as the patient is
here so a special food menu there is a
British menu there is a u.s. menu all
the services like in a hotel whether
it's laundry the room is equipped with a
high-speed Internet and a computer so
that they can surf the net there is a
color television with all cable channels
and a DVD player oh yeah it is we just
want them to feel at home
cutbacks changed that she had to go
private the cost back home nearly eight
thousand in India she's paying 1300 and
will have a week's holiday in the Mumbai
son afterwards the facilities that you
get are fantastic it's I mean you feel
as if you've been treated like royalty
the whole time you know from right down
from
the head doctor straight down to the
cleaners everybody it's just so so
helpful many of the doctors here are not
only top of their field but in Wanda's
case her surgeon did much of his
training in Britain doctor Kaushal Mohan
spent seven years working in Newcastle
and the West Midlands where he learned
the Birmingham hip resurfacing technique
it removes the need to cut away most of
the hip bone instead inserting a metal
ball
he's now pioneering the technique in
India many of the hospitals here
including this one have approached the
NHS about outsourcing the treatment of
patients to India but the ten-hour
flight was deemed too long but desperate
patients don't seem to take so
especially when they can combine having
the surgery with enjoying a few days of
good weather to recuperate a few days
after surgery and the British patients
are enjoying the sunshine with the money
they've saved Katherine and her husband
Danny will be able to have a second
holiday in a few weeks time in Egypt
I feel sore ducting I feel like you're a
different body ha ha ha look at what I
did I just think oh god it's not Maisie
I just I'm so happy I've done ER I'm so
glad it's all over and I can week about
you show everybody less for good wanders
already having intensive physio and is
putting her new hip joints to practice
before a few days relaxing in a hotel
I'm glad I came
that's really I'm just very yeah I money
Wells but I feel confident and
particularly in the surgeon also he's
explained everything in detail and I
just feel now I'll have a
I've been given a new life if you like
it ya feel really pleased and very
grateful to this hospital yeah
foreign patients like wander and
Catherine are now being actively courted
by Indian hospitals with the blessing of
the Indian government it's a trend the
authorities hope will grow and
eventually replicate the success of the
country's software sector
Alex Crawford Sky News Mumbai